---
title: "What We Do"
bg: green  #defined in _config.yml, can use html color like '#0fbfcf'
color: white   #text color
fa-icon: leaf
---

## **Greenhouses**

### Greenhouses are permanent glass or plastic-covered structures that allow farmers to grow vegetables and fruits year-round through mechanically controlled temperature and irrigation systems. To use a greenhouse, farmers simply plant their crops (as they would in an open field) under the greenhouse where the microclimate is much more favorable for plant growth. While greenhouses are not a new technology to Africa—large-scale commercial farmers use them quite frequently to boost year-round productivity—our research on materials, design concepts and construction processes in the US, Kenya and Tanzania have contributed to an innovative product that creates value through its low-cost and accessibility to small-scale, rural farmers.


#### **Affordable**
The affordability of our greenhouse is key to it’s success in the market. With some assistance, enough money can be raised to purchase the greenhouse and based off our current estimates, the greenhouse will be repaid after only two growing seasons. The increased profit gained from the use of the greenhouse can greatly improve the quality of life for the farmers.

#### **Expandable**
Due to it’s small size and low cost our greenhouses have been designed to be easily expandable. This modularity gives the farmers the opportunity to purchase one greenhouse, save the profits and then expand on the first greenhouse. This expansion can simply be a second greenhouse or an extension onto the first. Through this cycle a once small holder farmer can develop a thriving business and achieve economic security and peace of mind.

#### **Tried and Tested**
Over the past 3 years the Affordable Greenhouse team has been building and testing prototype versions of our greenhouse in locations spanning the U.S, Kenya, Rwanda, and Tanzania. Although there have been some setbacks, the results coming from these new prototype greenhouses are very promising.